---
layout: post
title: Why hyperconvergence worked for us
date: 2018-04-15 19:34:00
tags: infrastructure people
author: jon
---

Well, two and a half reasons.  The first being the semi-unique situation that we found ourselves in.  The trouble began, not a few years ago, but much farther back.  Big purchases, meant to solve all the problems, and therein lies the first rub.  Over subscription, taking what you have and making a best guess if it will fit tomorrows requirements.  This always fails, it is very challenging to predict the future, its not quite folly to do so, but take your lumps.

## Reason #1 (the half reason is in here too)

We had a string of big purchase that we never completely migrated off of.  One big array, two years later a set of arrays meant to mirror each other (under Novell!), then later another big array, without the first being fully retired.  In total, a decent amount of storage, but in chunks, which makes it difficult to provide a large amount of contiguous storage. Running in parallel to this were the switches, again, starting with 4, then adding 4 more, only retiring two of the older.  Never completing the migration off the old.  Add in understaffing and you have a recipe for a unfinished upgrades over multiple generations of hardware.

## Reason #2

Very little to actually change.  The solution we chose (Nutanix), didn't rely on an previous investments.  It was a completely clean break from storage and compute.  It allowed us to stage up a discrete environment, using existing VMware licenses and perform migration to the new systems.  Since it was using VMware, there wasn't a need to learn a new hypervisor.  Since the Prism management interface made provisioning a cluster a 10 minute process (That we got assistance with on install), the migration was pretty close to painless.  Any additional expansions that came after were equally painless and quick.

## Thoughts

Removing complexity is a big bonus of hyperconvergence.  I'm able to add more to my clusters without any thoughts to storage oriented upgrades (arrays and san switches).  Since they are flexible in nature, unless I look at a complete forklift upgrade, I'm only aging out portions of the over all system.